- document deployment approaches (#1431)
conan-io/docs: devtools/running_packages.rst

    Read more about the :ref:`deploy() <method_deploy>` method.

> .. _using_deploy_generator:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. _deployable_deploy_generator:
```

> Using deploy generator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the `deploy` generator
```

----------------------

> With the help of the :ref:`deploy generator <deploy_generator>`, it's possible to have all dependencies of the application to be copied into 

Reviewer: Too complex sentence. Please rephrase: `The deploy generator is used to have all the dependencies of an application copied into a single place. Then all the files can be repackaged into the distribution format of choice.`

Author: done

a single place for the later repackaging into the desired distribution format.
For instance, if the application depends on boost, we may not know that it also requires many other 3rt-party libraries, 
such as 
`zlib <https://zlib.net/>`_, 
`bzip2 <https://sourceware.org/bzip2/>`_, 
`lzma <https://tukaani.org/xz/>`_, 
`zstd <https://facebook.github.io/zstd/>`_, 
`iconv <https://www.gnu.org/software/libiconv/>`_, etc. 

.. code-block:: bash

    $ conan install . -g deploy

> This helps to collect all the dependencies into a single place, moving them out of the conan cache directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This helps to collect all the dependencies into a single place, moving them out of the Conan cache.
```

> .. _using_json_generator:

Reviewer: This reference is very general
```suggestion
.. _deployable_json_generator:
```

> Using json generator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the `json` generator
```

--------------------

A more advanced approach is to use the :ref:`json generator <json_generator>`:

> file containing all required information about dependencies:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This generator works in a similar fashion as the `deploy` one, although it doesn't copy the files to a directory. Instead, it generates a JSON file with all the information about the dependencies including the location of the files in the Conan cache.
```

.. code-block:: bash

    $ conan install . -g json

> The `conanbuildinfo.json` file produced is fully machine-readable and could be used by scripts to prepare the distribution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *conanbuildinfo.json* file produced is fully machine-readable and could be used by scripts to prepare the files and recreate the appropriate format for distribution.
```

> 

Reviewer: Please give context about the following code snippet

.. code-block:: python

        import os
        import json

        data = json.load(open("conanbuildinfo.json"))

        dep_lib_dirs = dict()
        dep_bin_dirs = dict()

        for dep in data["dependencies"]:
            root = dep["rootpath"]
            lib_paths = dep["lib_paths"]
            bin_paths = dep["bin_paths"]

            dep_lib_dirs = dict()
            dep_bin_dirs = dict()

            for lib_path in lib_paths:
                if os.listdir(lib_path):
                    lib_dir = os.path.relpath(lib_path, root)
                    dep_lib_dirs[lib_path] = lib_dir
            for bin_path in bin_paths:
                if os.listdir(bin_path):
                    bin_dir = os.path.relpath(bin_path, root)
                    dep_bin_dirs[bin_path] = bin_dir

> The advantage over the ``deploy`` generator is fine-grained control: here we copy only binaries and libraries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While with the `deploy` generator all the files were copied into a folder, the advantage with the `json` one is that you have fine-grained control over the files and those can be directly copied to the desired layout.
```

> It's also could be easily modified to apply some sort of filtering (e.g. to copy only shared libraries, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In that sense, the script above could be easily modified to apply some sort of filtering (e.g. to copy only shared libraries, 
```

and omit any static libraries or auxiliary files such as pkg-config .pc files).

> The extracted information may also be used to generate a simple startup script (as described below):

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Additionally, you could also write a simple startup script for your application with the extracted information like this:
```

.. code-block:: python

    executable = "MyApp"  # just an example
    varname = "$APPDIR"

    def _format_dirs(dirs):
        return ":".join(["%s/%s" % (varname, d) for d in dirs])

    path = _format_dirs(bin_dirs.values())
    ld_library_path = _format_dirs(bin_dirs.values())
    exe = varname + "/" + executable

    content = """#!/usr/bin/env bash
    set -ex
    export PATH=$PATH:{path}
    export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$LD_LIBRARY_PATH:{ld_library_path}
    pushd $(dirname {exe})
    $(basename {exe})
    popd
    """.format(path=path,
           ld_library_path=ld_library_path,
           exe=exe)

.. note::

>     The full example might be found on `GitHub <https://github.com/SSE4/conan-deploy-tool>`_.

Reviewer: examples should go to the conan-io/examples repository

Author: opened https://github.com/conan-io/examples/pull/36

> .. _deployment_challenges:

Reviewer: IMO this part does not fit very well in here. But I am not sure where we should put this

Author: I am open for suggestions

    Read more about the :ref:`deploy() <method_deploy>` method.

.. _using_deploy_generator:

Using deploy generator
----------------------

> With the help of so-called :ref:`deploy generator <deploy_generator>`, it's possible to have all dependencies of the application to be copied into the 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the help of the :ref:`deploy generator <deploy_generator>`, it's possible to have all dependencies of the application to be copied into 
```
For the docs, better a plain/boring/simple language.

a single place for the later repackaging into the desired distribution format.

> For instance, if the application depends on boost, we may not know that it also may require many other 3rt-party libraries, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For instance, if the application depends on boost, we may not know that it also requires many other 3rt-party libraries, 
```

such as 
`zlib <https://zlib.net/>`_, 
`bzip2 <https://sourceware.org/bzip2/>`_, 
`lzma <https://tukaani.org/xz/>`_, 
`zstd <https://facebook.github.io/zstd/>`_, 

> `iconv <https://www.gnu.org/software/libiconv/>`_, etc. It would be nice to collect them all, regardless of options applied to the **boost**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`iconv <https://www.gnu.org/software/libiconv/>`_, etc. 
```

.. code-block:: bash

    $ conan install . -g deploy

This helps to collect all the dependencies into a single place, moving them out of the conan cache directory.

.. _using_json_generator:

Using json generator
--------------------

> The more advanced approach is to use the :ref:`json generator <json_generator>`. First off, invoke the conan to generate the ``conanbuildinfo.json`` 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A more advanced approach is to use the :ref:`json generator <json_generator>`:
```

file containing all required information about dependencies:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ conan install . -g json

> The file produced is fully machine-readable and could be used by scripts to prepare the distribution.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `conanbuildinfo.json` file produced is fully machine-readable and could be used by scripts to prepare the distribution.
```

            root = dep["rootpath"]
            lib_paths = dep["lib_paths"]
            bin_paths = dep["bin_paths"]

            dep_lib_dirs = dict()
            dep_bin_dirs = dict()

            for lib_path in lib_paths:
                if os.listdir(lib_path):
                    lib_dir = os.path.relpath(lib_path, root)
                    dep_lib_dirs[lib_path] = lib_dir
            for bin_path in bin_paths:
                if os.listdir(bin_path):
                    bin_dir = os.path.relpath(bin_path, root)
                    dep_bin_dirs[bin_path] = bin_dir

Then, the information collected might be used to copy the required files into the destination:

.. code-block:: python

    from distutils.dir_util import copy_tree

    if not os.path.isdir(destination):
        os.makedirs(destination)
    for src_lib_dir, dst_bin_dir in dep_lib_dirs.items():
        copy_tree(src_lib_dir, os.path.join(destination, dst_lib_dir))
    for src_bin_dir, dst_bin_dir in dep_bin_dirs.items():
        copy_tree(src_bin_dir, os.path.join(destination, dst_bin_dir))

The advantage over the ``deploy`` generator is fine-grained control: here we copy only binaries and libraries.

> It's also could be easily modified to apply some sort of filtering (e.g. to copy only shared libraries, 

Reviewer 2: I think this is too much. Remove this second example. If the contents are too big people won't read it.

Author: sure

Author: removed

and omit any static libraries or auxiliary files such as pkg-config .pc files).
The extracted information may also be used to generate a simple startup script (as described below):

.. code-block:: python

    executable = "MyApp"  # just an example
    varname = "$APPDIR"

    def _format_dirs(dirs):
        return ":".join(["%s/%s" % (varname, d) for d in dirs])

    path = _format_dirs(bin_dirs.values())
    ld_library_path = _format_dirs(bin_dirs.values())
    exe = varname + "/" + executable

    content = """#!/usr/bin/env bash
    set -ex
    export PATH=$PATH:{path}
    export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$LD_LIBRARY_PATH:{ld_library_path}
    pushd $(dirname {exe})
    $(basename {exe})
    popd
    """.format(path=path,
           ld_library_path=ld_library_path,
           exe=exe)

.. note::

    The full example might be found on `GitHub <https://github.com/SSE4/conan-deploy-tool>`_.

.. _deployment_challenges:

Deployment challenges
---------------------

> C standard library

Reviewer 2: Have you tried to build the pages? you are putting everything at the same section level, right?

Author: changed the formatting to use `~~~~~~~~~~` as 3rd level heading
